# Bilingual-robot
A robot that plays a guess the word game in 2 languages.


This project implements a social robot that plays a 'Guess the Word' game with users. The robot uses speech-to-text processing with Google's Gemini API for conversation. Its extension is designed to help children learn Romanian while integrating vocabulary through playing a game.
The code is used for the Alpha Mini robot and runs on a university server.

Main Code File: code.py (provided code)

Necesary libraries: autobahn.twisted.component, twisted.internet.defer, autobahn.twisted.util, random, os, re, alpha_mini_rug.speech_to_text, alpha_mini_rug.perform_movement, google.genai

Prerequisites: Python 3.x, pip, Google Gemini API Key

The Google Gemini API Key needs to be generated from the website aistudio.google.com. Then, it needs to be added in this line of code: client = genai.Client(api_key="to be added here")

To start the application, run: python code.py

How to Play the Game
1. The head camera of the robot searches for the face of the player and says "I found you" when so.
2. The AI greets the user and explains the game first in English and then in Romanian.
3. The robot asks the first question in English and then it asks the same question in Romanian 
4. The player has to reply to the question with YES or NO.
5. The first four question are predefined and the questions asked afterwards are generated by Gemini only in English.
6. The game continues until the user guesses the word or they end it by saying keywords like "end", "finish", "play again" or "restart".
7. The user can confirm the end of the game by saying "confirm" or "dance".

All outputs are saved in the output directory as output.wav.

Ensure that all dependencies are correctly installed that you have a valid API key for the Gemini API before running the application and also the correct realm.

Also, it might happen that the robot does not distinguish the words we are telling it, which happens because its microphone does not properly detect our words at all times. This sometimes happen even in quiet environments, when we speak loud and clearly, especially with the word "NO". Such instances are frustrating, especially when all conditions seem ideal. Hence, we think this happens because of the robots hardware limitations, temporary software glitches and variations in voice tone and pitch that it fails to interpret. 
Additionally, due to certain glitches, the robot occasionally fails to fully finish asking the question in English.
Moreover, we usually choose to use the word "dance" to completely stop the game because, for some reason, the robot recognized it more reliably than the word "confirm". Therefore, the word "dance" guaranteed us that the game will be ended and that the code continues being respected.

